---
title: "A Capture-Recapture Model with Temporary Emigration for Estimating Population Size from Incomplete Registers"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/ISEC2024
venue: "Centre for Biomathematics, Swansea University"
date: 2024-07-17
location: "Swansea, Wales, UK"
slides_url: "https://lucyybrown.github.io/files/ISEC_talk.pdf"
---

Presentation at the International Statistical Ecology Conference (ISEC) 2024 in Swansea. 

## Abstract
Demographers have the essential task of estimating the number of individuals living in a country at a given time, but overcoverage makes this task difficult and can lead to serious bias in population estimates, negatively influencing policymaking and research. Overcoverage occurs when individuals are registered as living in the country but in fact live elsewhere, i.e. when we have imperfect emigration registration. Demographers in Sweden have been working towards estimating overcoverage, and in turn the true population size by using Swedish Population registers, which I have been given access to for this project. Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) provide an efficient and simple structure for computing likelihoods in Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) type capture-recapture-recovery (CRR) models as they account for the observations as well as infer the latent states. I have created a CJS type CRR model which is able to account for Temporary Emigration of individuals, as well as using multinomial regression to incorporate an arbitrary number of, possibly interacting, observation lists. The model was built and tested using simulated data, but has since been applied to the real aforementioned data from Sweden, with promising present results which indicate that the model is working as expected. While this model was built with the aim to estimate overcoverage and the true population size from incomplete registers in Sweden, there is the possibility of application to other similar countries also. 

[**[Download Slides]({{ page.slides_url }})**]
